README.md, before:

# Samaano Monospace Variable Weight Font

 
[![][Fontbakery]](https://mitradranirban.github.io/samaano-fonts.git/fontbakery/fontbakery-report.html)
[![][Universal]](https://mitradranirban.github.io/samaano-fonts.git/fontbakery/fontbakery-report.html)
[![][GF Profile]](https://mitradranirban.github.io/samaano-fonts.git/fontbakery/fontbakery-report.html)
[![][Shaping]](https://mitradranirban.github.io/samaano-fonts.git/fontbakery/fontbakery-report.html)

[Fontbakery]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2Foverall.json
[GF Profile]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2FGoogleFonts.json
[Outline Correctness]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2FOutlineCorrectnessChecks.json
[Shaping]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2FShapingChecks.json
[Universal]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2FUniversal.json

Samaano is a way to learn creation of variable font using Open Source Tools like Fontforge, Fontra and some python script.
 

The Name Samaano comes fron the Hindi word Samaan , meaning equal indicating the spaces are equal in this font. 
Indic fonts are usually made monospaced, but the designer will use his experience with developing MitraMono, the only monospaced Bengali font made way back in 2002.


![Sample Image](documentation/image1.png)

Following are the Design specialities of the font

* Fully created using Open Source Software - mainly [Fontra](https://fontra.xyz) and [Fontforge](https://github.com/fontforge/fontforge).

* Monospaced Font

* Tall Design with high X height and 2:1 Height to Width Ratio

* Simple Glyph construction using Rectangular or quadrilateral components only


![Sample Image](documentation/image2.png)

## About
This font is created by Dr Anirban Mitra, an amateure Typographer and Free Software Enthusisast. 
 
## Changelog
 
Font is currently in alpha stage 
## License

This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
This license is available with a FAQ at [SIL site](https://scripts.sil.org/OFL)

Commit message:

completed Basic Latin in 2 axes

README.md, after:

# Samaano Monospace Variable Weight Font

 
[![][Fontbakery]](https://mitradranirban.github.io/samaano-fonts.git/fontbakery/fontbakery-report.html)
[![][Universal]](https://mitradranirban.github.io/samaano-fonts.git/fontbakery/fontbakery-report.html)
[![][GF Profile]](https://mitradranirban.github.io/samaano-fonts.git/fontbakery/fontbakery-report.html)
[![][Shaping]](https://mitradranirban.github.io/samaano-fonts.git/fontbakery/fontbakery-report.html)

[Fontbakery]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2Foverall.json
[GF Profile]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2FGoogleFonts.json
[Outline Correctness]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2FOutlineCorrectnessChecks.json
[Shaping]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2FShapingChecks.json
[Universal]: https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitradranirban%2Fsamaano-fonts.git%2Fgh-pages%2Fbadges%2FUniversal.json

Samaano is a way to learn creation of variable font using Open Source Tools like Fontforge, Fontra and some python script.
 

The Name Samaano comes fron the Hindi word Samaan , meaning equal indicating the spaces are equal in this font. 
Indic fonts are usually never made monospaced, but the designer will use his experience with developing MitraMono, the only monospaced Bengali font made way back in 2002.


![Sample Image](documentation/image1.png)

Following are the Design specialities of the font

* Fully created using Open Source Software - mainly [Fontra](https://fontra.xyz) and [Fontforge](https://github.com/fontforge/fontforge).

* Monospaced Font

* Two Variable axes of Weight and Width

![animation](documentation/Samaano.gif)


* Simple Glyph construction using Rectangular or quadrilateral components only


![Sample Image](documentation/image2.png)

## About
This font is created by Dr Anirban Mitra, an amateure Typographer and Free Software Enthusiast.
 
## Changelog
 
Font is currently in alpha stage 
## License

This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
This license is available with a FAQ at [SIL site](https://scripts.sil.org/OFL)
